So let's ensure we respect token expiration.
Now for that in log in I know that token will expire in one hour because we are building the back end
and on the back end I configured it to expire after one hour.
So when we log a user in we also want a set kind of a timer after which we logged user out and we want
to derive the expected expiration date and store data and local storage as well so that when we in the
future try to order log in the user we can refer to dead stored expiration date and find out if the
tokens still is valid.
So let's start by creating an expiration date.
My token expiration date is basically a new date which I generate a new Date object date of course is
a built in API in the browser and JavaScript and there I want to get my current date which I get by
calling new date again on which I called Get time which gives me basically the number of milliseconds
that have passed since the beginning of time if you want to call it like this for the current date and
to that number I add 1000 milliseconds so one second time sixty to have a minute time 60 to have an
hour.
So this now generates a new Date object that's based on a current date plus one hour.
So it overall generates a Date object which is now plus one hour.
This is my token expiration date.
Now this token expiration date needs to be stored as part of the user data.
So here I will add expiration key and set as equal to token expiration date and then important here
to Ise those string to ensure that no data gets lost when this date is string you fight.
This is a special kind of string which basically stores all the important date information and which
importantly can be converted back to a date later.
Now we have one problem with this logic here though here with this logic I always generate a new timestamp
which is 1 hour in the future.
Keep in mind that log in all that gets called from inside disuse of fact logic here which runs to automatically
log our user in if we got stored data in local storage.
So in the end what we need to do here is we need to verify whether the tokens still is valid.
So if the expiration time we stored in local storage is in the future but then when we see that it is
valid and we call log in we need to pass that already stored expiration time to log in as well so that
in log in we might be getting an expiration date already which we then want to use as our token expiration
date but which we also might not get if we log in a user through dialogue and forum in which case you
want to generate a new date.
So even we have an existing expiration date because we automatically log the user in due to the stored
token in local storage or we don't have that in which case I want to generate a new one here in log
in.
So the expiration date needs to be extracted here and use a fact as well.
Now we're extracting all Steward's data and part of that stored data is the expiration key which is
the originally stored expiration date so here I can also check if we have a token if stored data expiration
is in the future.
And now to check this I will actually wrap this into new Date.
This will take days stored eyes or string and convert it into a date object.
And I want to check if new date for this saved expiration date is greater than new date like this which
is the current timestamp because of this date is greater than this date.
It means that the expiration date is still in the future.
Then the token is still valid and if that's the case we call log in and here as a third argument I now
forward that extract that expiration timestamp soda originally saved expiration timestamp without any
changes applied to it.
This is forwarded to log in and therefore in this case you would get expiration date and we would keep
that instead of creating a new one.
And when it then stored is in local storage I overwrite the existing data but I keep the old existing
expiration date so overwriting This here is no problem and with that restoring token we're working with
the date and we shouldn't be able to lock the user in if we have an invalid date what we're not doing
is we're not setting a timer to automatically log the user out if the token then expires whilst he's
active on the page.
So this is the missing thing we should do next.